you might think you know the flash but
here are 12 facts you might not know
about everyone's favorite Scarlet
speedster though there have been many
different versions of the flash the
original incarnation debuted in 1940 in
flash comics number one in a story by
Gardner Fox and Harry Lampert this issue
also featured the first appearances of
popular Golden Age heroes Hawkman and
Johnny Thunder the original flash was
Jay Garrick a college student who
accidentally inhaled hard water fumes
giving him lightning-fast speed and
reflexes together with his hobo
sidekicks Winky blinky and naughty Jay
would fight crime while trying to win
the love of his sweetheart Joan he would
go on to be the founder of comics first
super team to Justice Society of America
Jay's series was canceled in the late
40s as the popularity of superheroes
waned but the flash concept was rebooted
in the mid 50s with new flash Barry
Allen a forensic scientist who was
doused with mystery chemicals which had
been struck by lightning taking his name
from his favorite comic book character
buried on his now classic red suit to
become the new flash Barry Allen first
appeared in a story called the mystery
of the human thunderbolt in showcase
number four Robert Khanna ger and Carmen
and Fantino this issue is considered to
be the starting point of superheroes
comics second historical era the Silver
Age in this story the flash is
confronted by a villain called the
turtle who for some reason figures the
only thing better than the fastest man
alive is the slowest man alive now it
doesn't work out for him despite this
inauspicious start the flash has some of
the most notable villains in comics his
rogues gallery is so well known they are
literally called the Rogues
noteworthy opponents of the flash
include Captain cold weather wizard the
trickster the Pied Piper heat wave
Captain Boomerang
mirror master Gorilla Grodd and of
course the reverse-flash aka professor
zoom one of the defining characteristics
of DC Comics from the 60s through the
mid 80s was the multiverse which was the
idea that different versions of heroes
lived on different earths separated only
by vibrational frequency this concept is
introduced in class number 123 in a
story called the flash of two world
like Gardner Fox and carmine infantino
in which Barry Allen teams up with Jay
Garrick who is now revealed to be the
flash of earth 2 after a couple of
decades of arriving ironically late for
dates Barry finally settles down and
marries his girlfriend iris West
and accidentally reveals his secret
identity to her by talking in his sleep
unfortunately the reverse-flash jealous
of iris is love for Barry kills her and
later tries to do the same to Barry's
next fiance but Barry unintentionally
kills reverse-flash to defend her
although Barry has put on a lengthy
trial for the manslaughter of the
reverse-flash the good news is iris was
only kind of dead it turns out that her
soul had actually been sent to the 30th
century where it was placed in a new
body
Barry travels to the future and is
reunited with Iris where they live
happily until Barry sacrifices his life
saving the entirety of existence in the
crisis of Infinite Earths after Barry
cyrillic death he is replaced by the
flash by his protege and nephew Wally
West who had been Teen Titans member Kid
Flash
after coincidentally gaining SuperSpeed
powers in exactly the same manner as
Barry
Wally went on to become the greatest and
the fastest of all the Flash's to impart
to his harnessing of the Speed Force the
mysterious extra dimensional energy
source that powers all super speedsters
including all the flashes as well as
allies max mercury Johnny quick and
Jesse quick for a brief time Wally left
our earth for an alternate dimension
with his wife Linda and their twin
children as a result Bart Allen Barry's
grandson from the 30th century
previously known as impulse and the
second Kid Flash became the fourth flash
Bart's tenure as the flash was ended
when he was killed by the ropes but
don't worry he was of course only
temporarily dead if all that
dimension-hopping and faked death
confuses you take heart Barry is the
flash again just like the guy on TV
Bart his Kid Flash and a member of the
Teen Titans there is also a new version
of Wally but he does not as of yet have
flash powers that's it for this episode
of you think you know comics